# DMS Project Edition 0.5.3 to 0.5.5

## version 0.5.5 

release date: 9 october 2015

codename [Dr. Julius No](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julius_No)

[Newsletter](http://us11.campaign-archive1.com/?u=dfc926b292db1ce9e1315460d&id=11eeda482f)

- Support for Google Earth Files (KML and KMZ format);
- Support for plain text files: TXT, Markdown. For this file the preview is available;
- Support for Rich Text Format (RTF) files;
- Google Docs, Spreadsheets and Slides can also be uploaded and previewed;
- Ability to upload unsupported file types (only the file name will be used in case of search);
- The maximum supported file size is now 100 MB;
- Increased contrast in the document details panel;
- Ability to enable/disable the map visualization;
- List style visualization persistence across page changes for the same user;
- Increased Russian translated UI elements;
- Delete documents from the recent list;
- Better trash handling;
- Increased compatibility with Firefox and older versions of Internet Explorer.


## version 0.5.4

release date: 18 september 2015

[Newsletter](http://us11.campaign-archive2.com/?u=dfc926b292db1ce9e1315460d&id=f8a49c9d23)

- Recent page now shows recent activities based on user profile. Regular users will see only personal activity listed, while the administrator will see updates on all the documents inside the DMS.
- Pagination: it has been a while that the pagination links at the bottom of each pages report a different number of pages than the reality. Now this has been fixed ;)
- The footer text sometimes was floating around obscuring the documents list, now is back in it's place at the bottom of the page

## version 0.5.3

release date: August 2016

[Newsletter](http://us11.campaign-archive1.com/?u=dfc926b292db1ce9e1315460d&id=7665f87c5a)

- Alpha version of the Russian localization
- A more contextual "Create Collection": The Create collection button is back and is context sensitive. The collection will be created with the correct visibility right out the box. When created from inside a Project the parent collection will be setup for you.
- Collection move with drag and drop: You can now organize collections by simply moving them around with the drag and drop.
- A real drag and drop area for file upload: We've improved the sensitive area for the drag and drop based file upload and, also, we have added a little hint message to make you aware of the action.
- Recognize the K-Link DMS among all your opened tabs with the favicon.
- better upload error reports
- document indexing fix when the document language is unknown
- restored email validation when creating users
- better error messages
- delete documents enhancements
